# Next.js
Next.js is a React framework for <strong>building full-stack web applications</strong>. 
You use React Components to build user interfaces, and Next.js for additional features and optimizations.

Under the hood, Next.js also abstracts and automatically configures tooling needed for React, 
like bundling, compiling, and more. This allows you to focus on building your application instead of spending time with configuration.

---

## install
```
npx create-next-app@latest
```

---

## Middleware
Integrating Middleware into your application can lead to significant improvements in performance, security, and user experience. Some common scenarios where Middleware is particularly effective include:

- Authentication and Authorization: Ensure user identity and check session cookies before granting access to specific pages or API routes.
- Server-Side Redirects: Redirect users at the server level based on certain conditions (e.g., locale, user role).
- Path Rewriting: Support A/B testing, feature rollouts, or legacy paths by dynamically rewriting paths to API routes or pages based on request properties.
- Bot Detection: Protect your resources by detecting and blocking bot traffic.
- Logging and Analytics: Capture and analyze request data for insights before processing by the page or API.
- Feature Flagging: Enable or disable features dynamically for seamless feature rollouts or testing.

Recognizing situations where middleware may not be the optimal approach is just as crucial. Here are some scenarios to be mindful of:
- Complex Data Fetching and Manipulation: Middleware is not designed for direct data fetching or manipulation, this should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities instead.
- Heavy Computational Tasks: Middleware should be lightweight and respond quickly or it can cause delays in page load. Heavy computational tasks or long-running processes should be done within dedicated Route Handlers.
- Extensive Session Management: While Middleware can manage basic session tasks, extensive session management should be managed by dedicated authentication services or within Route Handlers.
- Direct Database Operations: Performing direct database operations within Middleware is not recommended. Database interactions should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities.

---

## Automatic code-splitting and prefetching
To improve the navigation experience, Next.js automatically code splits your application by route segments. This is different from a traditional React SPA, where the browser loads all your application code on initial load.

Splitting code by routes means that pages become isolated. If a certain page throws an error, the rest of the application will still work.

Furthermore, in production, whenever `<Link>` components appear in the browser's viewport, Next.js automatically prefetches the code for the linked route in the background. By the time the user clicks the link, the code for the destination page will already be loaded in the background, and this is what makes the page transition near-instant!

---

## 总结
- Next.js 是一个用于构建全栈Web应用的React框架，它在React组件之上提供了额外的功能和优化，并自动配置了打包、编译等工具，使开发者可以专注于应用程序的开发。
- 中间件能显著提升应用的性能、安全性和用户体验，适用于认证授权、服务器端重定向、路径重写、日志等场景。需要注意的是，对于复杂的数据获取、重型计算任务、详尽的会话管理以及直接的数据库操作，中间件不是最佳选择，这些应由路由处理器或服务端工具处理。
- Next.js 通过按路由分段自动分割代码，确保页面隔离，即使某个页面出错也不影响其他部分。在生产环境中，当`<Link>`组件进入视口时，Next.js会在后台自动预取链接的代码，使得用户点击链接时目标页面几乎瞬间加载完成，增强了导航体验。

---

## reference
- https://nextjs.org/docs
- https://bun.sh/guides/ecosystem/nextjs
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware