# Metadata 
Metadata is crucial for SEO and shareability.

In web development, metadata provides additional details about a webpage. Metadata is not visible to the users visiting the page. Instead, it works behind the scenes, embedded within the page's HTML, usually within the `<head>` element. This hidden information is crucial for search engines and other systems that need to understand your webpage's content better.

Metadata plays a significant role in enhancing a webpage's SEO, making it more accessible and understandable for search engines and social media platforms. Proper metadata helps search engines effectively index webpages, improving their ranking in search results. Additionally, metadata like Open Graph improves the appearance of shared links on social media, making the content more appealing and informative for users.

## Types of metadata
**Title Metadata**: Responsible for the title of a webpage that is displayed on the browser tab. It's crucial for SEO as it helps search engines understand what the webpage is about.
```html
<title>Page Title</title>
```

**Description Metadata**: This metadata provides a brief overview of the webpage content and is often displayed in search engine results.
```html
<meta name="description" content="A brief description of the page content." />
```

**Keyword Metadata**: This metadata includes the keywords related to the webpage content, helping search engines index the page.
```html
<meta name="keywords" content="keyword1, keyword2, keyword3" />
```

**Open Graph Metadata**: This metadata enhances the way a webpage is represented when shared on social media platforms, providing information such as the title, description, and preview image.
```html
<meta property="og:title" content="Title Here" />
<meta property="og:description" content="Description Here" />
<meta property="og:image" content="image_url_here" />
```

**Favicon Metadata**: This metadata links the favicon (a small icon) to the webpage, displayed in the browser's address bar or tab.
```html
<link rel="icon" href="path/to/favicon.ico" />
```

## Example
nextjs-dashboard/app/dashboard/layout.tsx


## reference
https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata#metadata-object