# Server Action
React Server Actions allow you to run asynchronous code directly on the server. They eliminate the need to create API endpoints to mutate your data. Instead, you write asynchronous functions that execute on the server and can be invoked from your Client or Server Components.

Security is a top priority for web applications, as they can be vulnerable to various threats. This is where Server Actions come in. They offer an effective security solution, protecting against different types of attacks, securing your data, and ensuring authorized access. Server Actions achieve this through techniques like POST requests, encrypted closures, strict input checks, error message hashing, and host restrictions, all working together to significantly enhance your app's safety.

Server Actions are also deeply integrated with Next.js caching. When a form is submitted through a Server Action, not only can you use the action to mutate data, but you can also revalidate the associated cache using APIs like revalidatePath and revalidateTag.

By adding the 'use server', you mark all the exported functions within the file as Server Actions. These server functions can then be imported and used in Client and Server components.
```tsx
'use server';
 
export async function createInvoice(formData: FormData) {...}
```
-> nextjs-dashboard/app/lib/actions.ts

You can also write Server Actions directly inside Server Components by adding "use server" inside the action. 
```tsx
// Server Component
export default function Page() {
  // Action
  async function create(formData: FormData) {
    'use server';
 
    // Logic to mutate data...
  }
 
  // Invoke the action using the "action" attribute
  return <form action={create}>...</form>;
}
```

## 总结
React Server Actions 让你能在服务器上直接执行异步代码，简化了数据变更操作，无需额外创建API端点。通过标记 'use server'，可以将函数定义为Server Actions，并在客户端或服务器组件中调用。

安全性方面，Server Actions 采用多种技术（如POST请求、加密闭包等）来抵御攻击并确保数据安全。它们还与Next.js缓存集成，允许在数据变更时通过API如revalidatePath和revalidateTag重新验证相关缓存。

## further reading
https://nextjs.org/blog/security-nextjs-server-components-actions