# NextAuth.js
NextAuth.js abstracts away much of the complexity involved in managing sessions, sign-in and sign-out, and other aspects of authentication.

1. install next-auth:
```shell
pnpm i next-auth@beta
```

2. Next, generate a secret key for your application. This key is used to encrypt cookies, ensuring the security of user sessions. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:
```shell
openssl rand -base64 32
```

3. Then, in your .env file, add your generated key to the AUTH_SECRET variable:
```
AUTH_SECRET=your-secret-key
```

4. Create an auth.config.ts file at the root of our project that exports an authConfig object. This object will contain the configuration options for NextAuth.js. 

-> [example](../nextjs-dashboard/auth.config.ts)

- The pages option to specify the route for custom sign-in, sign-out, and error pages. This is not required, but by adding signIn: '/login' into our pages option, the user will be redirected to our custom login page, rather than the NextAuth.js default page.
- The authorized callback is used to verify if the request is authorized to access a page via Next.js Middleware. It is called before a request is completed, and it receives an object with the auth and request properties. The auth property contains the user's session, and the request property contains the incoming request.
- The providers option is an array where you list different login options. 


5.  Add to middleware.ts:
initializing NextAuth.js with the authConfig object and exporting the auth property. You're also using the matcher option from Middleware to specify that it should run on specific paths.

-> [example](../nextjs-dashboard/middleware.ts)

