# functions-and-directives

## Directives
Directives are <strong>custom Tailwind-specific at-rules</strong> you can use in your CSS 
that offer special functionality for Tailwind CSS projects.

### 1. @tailwind
Use the @tailwind directive to insert Tailwind’s base, components, utilities and variants styles into your CSS.

### 2. @layer
Use the @layer directive to tell Tailwind which “bucket” a set of custom styles belong to
Valid layers are base, components, and utilities.

->[adding-custom-styles](./3.%20adding-custom-styles.md)

### 3. @apply
Use @apply to inline any existing utility classes into your own custom CSS.

This is useful when you need to write custom CSS (like to override the styles in a third-party library) 
but still want to work with your design tokens and use the same syntax you’re used to using in your HTML.
```
.select2-dropdown {
  @apply rounded-b-lg shadow-md;
}
.select2-search {
  @apply border border-gray-300 rounded;
}
.select2-results__group {
  @apply text-lg font-bold text-gray-900;
}
```

<br>

### 4. @config
Use the @config directive to specify <strong>which config file Tailwind should use</strong> when compiling that CSS file. 
This is useful for projects that need to use different configuration files for different CSS entry points.
```
@config "./tailwind.site.config.js";

@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```
Note that if you’re using postcss-import, your @import statements need to come before @config for things to work correctly, 
as postcss-import is strict about following the CSS spec which requires @import statements to precede any other rules in the file.

<br>

## Functions
Tailwind adds a few custom functions you can use in your CSS <strong>to access Tailwind-specific values</strong>. 
These functions are evaluated at build-time, and are replaced by static values in your final CSS.

### 1. theme()
Use the theme() function to access your Tailwind config values using dot notation.
```
.content-area {
  height: calc(100vh - theme(spacing.12));
}
```
If you need to access a value that contains a dot (like the 2.5 value in the spacing scale), 
you can use square bracket notation:
```
.content-area {
  height: calc(100vh - theme(spacing[2.5]));
  background-color: theme(colors.blue.500 / 75%);
}
```

<br>

### 2. screen
The screen function allows you to create media queries that reference your breakpoints by name 
instead of duplicating their values in your own CSS.
```
@media screen(sm) {
  /* ... */
}
```
This will resolve to the underlying screen value at build-time:
```
@media (min-width: 640px) {
  /* ... */
}
```

<br>

## reference
- https://tailwindcss.com/docs/functions-and-directives