# Rspack language support
## 1. TypeScript
TypeScript is a first-class citizen with Rspack.

就是说，只要.ts的文件就能识别，不需要额外安装babel-loader or ts-loader，但是Rspack本身不做类型检查：

For maximum speed, Rspack transpiles TypeScript source code without performing any type checking.
An external tool such as tsc must be used for type checking.

You can use the <strong>fork-ts-checker-webpack-plugin</strong> to perform TypeScript type checking during compilation. 
However, it’s important to note that TypeScript’s type checking can be time-consuming, especially for larger projects. 
This means that the time required for type checking may exceed the build time of Rspack itself.

To enable TypeScript’s incremental build, you can use tsc --incremental independently or enabling incremental mode in the plugin.


<br>

## 2. JSX and TSX
JSX and TSX are first-class citizens with Rspack. 
By default, files ending in *.jsx and *.tsx will be handled as JSX/TSX module types.

<br>

## 3. JSON
JSON is a first-class citizen with Rspack. You can import it directly

<br>

## 4. Node polyfills
Rspack does not automatically inject polyfills for Node. If you need to use the corresponding functionality, 
add the @rspack/plugin-node-polyfill plugin and corresponding configuration in rspack.config.js:
```
const NodePolyfill = require('@rspack/plugin-node-polyfill');

module.exports = {
  plugins: [new NodePolyfill()],
};
```

<br>

## 5. CSS
CSS is a first-class citizen with Rspack. 
Rspack has the ability to handle CSS out-of-box, so additional configuration isn't required.

By default, files ending in *.css are treated as CSS module types. 
Files ending in *.module.css are treated as CSS Modules module types.

<br>

## 6. PostCSS
Rspack is compatible with [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader), which you can configure like this:
```
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                // ...
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

<br>

## 7. Less and Sass
```
// less
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
            options: {
              // ...
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};

// sass
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.sass$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // ...
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

<br>

## reference
https://www.rspack.dev/guide/language-support.html