# Optimization
## 1. Source Mapping
It is recommended to enable SourceMap for production environments to facilitate debugging in production environments. 

If you have a large project, it is recommended that you choose a configuration with better performance 
([see devtool for more options](https://www.rspack.dev/config/devtool.html)), such as the source-map configuration option.

<br>

## 2. Minification
Rspack uses the built-in minimizer to compress JavaScript and CSS code by default, 
which can be configured by <strong>[builtins.minifyOptions](https://www.rspack.dev/config/builtins.html#builtinsminifyoptions)</strong>. 

If the built-in minimizer cannot meet your needs, 
you can use <strong>[optimization.minimizer](https://www.rspack.dev/config/optimization#optimizationminimizer)</strong> to set a custom minimizer.

<br>

## 3. Code splitting
Rspack supports code splitting, which allows splitting the code into other chunks. 
You have the full control about size of generated assets, which allow you to gain performance improvements in loading time.

There are three general approaches to code splitting available:
- Entry Points: Manually split code using entry configuration.
- Prevent Duplication: Use SplitChunksPlugin to dedupe and split chunks. Rspack supports you to split Chunk with the optimization.splitChunks configuration item.
- Dynamic Imports: Split code via inline function calls within modules.


example: entry, splitChunks
```
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'development',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
    another: './src/another-module.js',
  },
  output: {
    filename: '[name].bundle.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    splitChunks: {
      //  Providing all can be particularly powerful, because it means that chunks can be shared even between async and non-async chunks.
      chunks: 'all',
    }
  }
};
module.exports = config;
```
->
```
Asset       Size         Chunks             Chunk Names
another.bundle.js   3.27 KiB        another  [emitted]  another
index.bundle.js     3.27 KiB          index  [emitted]  index
+ another~index.bundle.js  462 bytes  another~index  [emitted]
Entrypoint another = another.bundle.js another~index.bundle.js
Entrypoint index = another~index.bundle.js index.bundle.js
[./src/index.js] 41 bytes {another~index}
[./src/shared.js] 24 bytes {another~index}
```
You should now see that the duplicate modules have been removed from index.bundle.js and another.bundle.js. 
Note that the plugin split shared.js into another~index.bundle.js and removes it from index.bundle.js and another.bundle.js.

https://www.rspack.dev/config/optimization-split-chunks.html

<br>

### Dynamic import
Rspack use the import() syntax that conforms to the ECMAScript proposal for dynamic imports(Rspack doesn't support require.ensure).
```
- import './shared'
+ import('./shared') // Dynamic import
console.log('index.js')
```

<br>

## 4. Bundle analysis
Rspack's Command Line Interface (CLI) supports bundle analysis out-of-box via the --analyze option. 
It uses webpack-bundle-analyzer behind the scenes.
```
rspack build --analyze
```
You can also generate a stats.json file for further analysis with other bundle analysis tools like bundle-stats or statoscope:
```
rspack build --json stats.json
```

<br>

## 5. Build performance profile
The Rspack CLI supports the use of the RSPACK_PROFILE environment variable for build performance profile.
```
RSPACK_PROFILE=ALL rspack build
```
This command will generate a .rspack-profile-${timestamp} folder in the current folder, and it will contain logging.json, trace.json and jscpuprofile.json files.
- trace.json: The time spent on each phase of the Rust side is recorded at a granular level using tracing and can be viewed using ui.perfetto.dev
- jscpuprofile.json: The time spent at each stage on the JavaScript side is recorded at a granular level using Node.js inspector and can be viewed using speedscope.app
- logging.json: Includes some logging information that keeps a coarse-grained record of how long each phase of the build took

<br>

## 6.Tree shaking
Rspack supports tree shaking, which is a term commonly used within a JavaScript context to describe the removal of dead code.

It relies on the import and export statements to detect if code modules are exported and imported for use between JavaScript files.

Tree shaking will be enable when you set mode into production.

https://www.rspack.dev/guide/tree-shaking.html