pack/rspack/8. Migrating from webpack.md, before:

# Migrating from webpack

1. Removing babel-loader, using [buildin.presetEnv and target](./7.%20Downgrading.md) instead

2. Removing css-loader style-loader and mini-css-extract-plugn
```
-const MiniCssExtractPlugin = require("mini-css-extract-plugin");
 module.exports = {
   module: {
     rules: [
-      {
-        test: /\.css$/i,
-        use: [
-          isDev ? "style-loader" : MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader,
-          "css-loader",
-        ],
-      },
+      {
+        test: /\.css$/i,
+        type: "css", // this is enabled by default for .css, so you don't need to specify it
+      },
+      {
+        test: /\.module\.css$/i,
+        type: "css/module", // this is enabled by default for module.css,   so you don't need to specify it
+      },
     ],
   },
   plugins: [],
 };
```

3. Using [asset modules](./2.%20Assert%20modules.md) instead of file-loader and url-loader

4. Using builtins.html instead of html-webpack-plugin
```
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require("html-webpack-plugin");

 module.exports = {
+  builtins: {
+    html: [
+      {
+        template: "index.html",
+        filename: "index.html",
+      },
+    ],
+  },
-  plugins: [
-    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
-      template: "index.html",
-      filename: "index.html",
-    }),
-  ],
 };
```

<br>

## refernce
https://www.rspack.dev/guide/migrate-from-webpack.html

Commit message:

docs: add Webpack Configuration Compatibility

pack/rspack/8. Migrating from webpack.md, after:

# Migrating from webpack

1. Removing babel-loader, using [buildin.presetEnv and target](./7.%20Downgrading.md) instead

2. Removing css-loader style-loader and mini-css-extract-plugn
```
-const MiniCssExtractPlugin = require("mini-css-extract-plugin");
 module.exports = {
   module: {
     rules: [
-      {
-        test: /\.css$/i,
-        use: [
-          isDev ? "style-loader" : MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader,
-          "css-loader",
-        ],
-      },
+      {
+        test: /\.css$/i,
+        type: "css", // this is enabled by default for .css, so you don't need to specify it
+      },
+      {
+        test: /\.module\.css$/i,
+        type: "css/module", // this is enabled by default for module.css,   so you don't need to specify it
+      },
     ],
   },
   plugins: [],
 };
```

3. Using [asset modules](./2.%20Assert%20modules.md) instead of file-loader and url-loader

4. Using builtins.html instead of html-webpack-plugin
```
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require("html-webpack-plugin");

 module.exports = {
+  builtins: {
+    html: [
+      {
+        template: "index.html",
+        filename: "index.html",
+      },
+    ],
+  },
-  plugins: [
-    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
-      template: "index.html",
-      filename: "index.html",
-    }),
-  ],
 };
```

<br>

## Webpack Configuration Compatibility
Rspack currently does not support all webpack configurations, and some configurations may affect the build output. 
To ensure the correctness of the build output, Rspack enables strict validation of the configurations by default. 

However, it also provides a loose mode for easy progressive migration. 
You can enable it by setting the RSPACK_CONFIG_VALIDATE environment variable:
### Enable loose validation mode will print out erroneous configurations but will not throw error.
RSPACK_CONFIG_VALIDATE=loose rspack build
### Enable loose validation mode, without printing errors or throwing error.
RSPACK_CONFIG_VALIDATE=loose-silent rspack build

<br>

## refernce
https://www.rspack.dev/guide/migrate-from-webpack.html
