react/next/next.md, before:

# Next.js
Next.js is a React framework for <strong>building full-stack web applications</strong>. 
You use React Components to build user interfaces, and Next.js for additional features and optimizations.

Under the hood, Next.js also abstracts and automatically configures tooling needed for React, 
like bundling, compiling, and more. This allows you to focus on building your application instead of spending time with configuration.

<br>

## Suspense
```tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { PostFeed, Weather } from './Components'
 
export default function Posts() {
  return (
    <section>
      <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading feed...</p>}>
        <PostFeed />
      </Suspense>
      <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading weather...</p>}>
        <Weather />
      </Suspense>
    </section>
  )
}
```
By using Suspense, you get the benefits of:
- Streaming Server Rendering: Progressively rendering HTML from the server to the client.
- Selective Hydration: React prioritizes what components to make interactive first based on user interaction.

## Middleware
Integrating Middleware into your application can lead to significant improvements in performance, security, and user experience. Some common scenarios where Middleware is particularly effective include:

- Authentication and Authorization: Ensure user identity and check session cookies before granting access to specific pages or API routes.
- Server-Side Redirects: Redirect users at the server level based on certain conditions (e.g., locale, user role).
- Path Rewriting: Support A/B testing, feature rollouts, or legacy paths by dynamically rewriting paths to API routes or pages based on request properties.
- Bot Detection: Protect your resources by detecting and blocking bot traffic.
- Logging and Analytics: Capture and analyze request data for insights before processing by the page or API.
- Feature Flagging: Enable or disable features dynamically for seamless feature rollouts or testing.

Recognizing situations where middleware may not be the optimal approach is just as crucial. Here are some scenarios to be mindful of:
- Complex Data Fetching and Manipulation: Middleware is not designed for direct data fetching or manipulation, this should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities instead.
- Heavy Computational Tasks: Middleware should be lightweight and respond quickly or it can cause delays in page load. Heavy computational tasks or long-running processes should be done within dedicated Route Handlers.
- Extensive Session Management: While Middleware can manage basic session tasks, extensive session management should be managed by dedicated authentication services or within Route Handlers.
- Direct Database Operations: Performing direct database operations within Middleware is not recommended. Database interactions should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities.

## reference
- https://nextjs.org/docs
- https://bun.sh/guides/ecosystem/nextjs
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware

Commit message:

docs: Automatic code-splitting and prefetching

react/next/next.md, after:

# Next.js
Next.js is a React framework for <strong>building full-stack web applications</strong>. 
You use React Components to build user interfaces, and Next.js for additional features and optimizations.

Under the hood, Next.js also abstracts and automatically configures tooling needed for React, 
like bundling, compiling, and more. This allows you to focus on building your application instead of spending time with configuration.

<br>

## Suspense
```tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { PostFeed, Weather } from './Components'
 
export default function Posts() {
  return (
    <section>
      <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading feed...</p>}>
        <PostFeed />
      </Suspense>
      <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading weather...</p>}>
        <Weather />
      </Suspense>
    </section>
  )
}
```
By using Suspense, you get the benefits of:
- Streaming Server Rendering: Progressively rendering HTML from the server to the client.
- Selective Hydration: React prioritizes what components to make interactive first based on user interaction.

## Middleware
Integrating Middleware into your application can lead to significant improvements in performance, security, and user experience. Some common scenarios where Middleware is particularly effective include:

- Authentication and Authorization: Ensure user identity and check session cookies before granting access to specific pages or API routes.
- Server-Side Redirects: Redirect users at the server level based on certain conditions (e.g., locale, user role).
- Path Rewriting: Support A/B testing, feature rollouts, or legacy paths by dynamically rewriting paths to API routes or pages based on request properties.
- Bot Detection: Protect your resources by detecting and blocking bot traffic.
- Logging and Analytics: Capture and analyze request data for insights before processing by the page or API.
- Feature Flagging: Enable or disable features dynamically for seamless feature rollouts or testing.

Recognizing situations where middleware may not be the optimal approach is just as crucial. Here are some scenarios to be mindful of:
- Complex Data Fetching and Manipulation: Middleware is not designed for direct data fetching or manipulation, this should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities instead.
- Heavy Computational Tasks: Middleware should be lightweight and respond quickly or it can cause delays in page load. Heavy computational tasks or long-running processes should be done within dedicated Route Handlers.
- Extensive Session Management: While Middleware can manage basic session tasks, extensive session management should be managed by dedicated authentication services or within Route Handlers.
- Direct Database Operations: Performing direct database operations within Middleware is not recommended. Database interactions should be done within Route Handlers or server-side utilities.

## Automatic code-splitting and prefetching
To improve the navigation experience, Next.js automatically code splits your application by route segments. This is different from a traditional React SPA, where the browser loads all your application code on initial load.

Splitting code by routes means that pages become isolated. If a certain page throws an error, the rest of the application will still work.

Furthermore, in production, whenever `<Link>` components appear in the browser's viewport, Next.js automatically prefetches the code for the linked route in the background. By the time the user clicks the link, the code for the destination page will already be loaded in the background, and this is what makes the page transition near-instant!

## reference
- https://nextjs.org/docs
- https://bun.sh/guides/ecosystem/nextjs
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming
- https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware
